okay what we got here is a camphor tree
and as you can see the tree has been cut
back pretty severely all the way around
now one might say that's a really lousy
pruning job and if that was the case I
would agree but what happened was this
tree if you look over on the right up
here you can see that there's a big dead
top this tree has been dying all the way
around now what's interesting is you can
see there's a stump over here on the
ground there was another camper here
last year the same size as this one and
the whole thing just turned brown the
whole thing just suddenly died this one
was going a little bit slower so it's
working its way down from the top so
we're going to give it a try and see
what happens
maybe I'll post another video next year
see what it looks like
yeah all right we stopped at this point
and if we left it alone we've left a
fair amount of foliage on there and it
might fill in but we made a discovery
when we were looking at the tree we
recognize that there's still a lot of
declining tissue in the tree if you look
at this piece right here you can see as
a real radical discoloration this is the
healthy wood over here and this is the
defining way this is the diseased wood
so as this continues to spread down
through the trunk then even the stuff
that has active tissue is going to
continue to get infected and will
decline so the upper canopy we were able
to make most of the cuts back to good
solid green tissue but the next thing
that I want to do is going to be to cut
it even harsher because a lot of this
still has some problems up here has some
problems over here has some problems and
before we do it we're going to go get
some Lysol and spray down the one
chainsaw that we're going to use to make
these harsh cuts in hopes of minimizing
the spread of the disease through the
pruning tool
so it back up in the tree again with a
sterilised chainsaw and hopefully all
the cuts that we make we're going to be
entirely into sound uninfected wood I
would take it down pretty significant I
would probably go about yes right there
yes the tree is going to look really
harsh but if we don't do it then we're
not going to get past those infected
areas even that's a crapshoot yeah he is
still some discoloration in here
I think maybe if we take another foot
off I'll do it from the ladder how's it
look up there
yeah for balancing and people that blow
off over there Harshman we're doing I'm
afraid if we don't do it we
chance Wow look at this look at that boy
whoever did that last the piece that we
cut out the tree somebody didn't you
never good handle on the chainsaw okay
there it is that's what it looks like
when it's done
and it looks like crap don't see any
other options and like I said before
this is not something I would ever
recommend and it'll be real easy for a
neighbor to come by and say boy that
Saratoga Tree Service they sure butcher
their trees well the only other option
is you're cutting Pam clients is
attached to the tree so this is like an
absolute last ditch effort and we'll
check it out next year and see what
happens but in essence it's just a big
Bush
okay now I realize that there's going to
be an awful lot of controversy about
what I'm doing here and I want to
explain why first off I went to the
books I read this many many times I went
to the chapter on verticillium wilt and
this particular book is the one that I
often refer to and what we're dealing
here with is verticillium is according
to the books a soil borne fungus and it
spreads up through the xylem of the tree
and it lodges itself in upper sections
of the tree and in doing so it says
according to this that the spread is the
upward spread of the verticillium and
the xylem as described above has been
studied etc etc and it seems to lodge
itself and work its way upward so while
what we're doing is not a cure for the
verticillium hopefully we can slow it
down significantly by cutting out the
infected areas to a point where we no
longer have the spores lodged in the
tissue and hopefully the tree will
sucker out and sprout some new foliage
to sustain it as well basically a big
Bush so that's what we're trying like I
said this is an experiment I've done it
before in the past and I've had
different degrees of positive results
some negative it's like I said before
it's a crapshoot
the client wants to try it so that's
where I stand
thanks for watching I appreciate your
payin attention to all these videos and
as always I appreciate the feedback